# Exercises 

## Exercise 1: Extend Portfolio

Incorporate the module you generated in the earlier labs into the example portfolio you have just created. The following steps should suffice to do this:

- Copy/move the module into the portfolio folder (perhaps rename first to something unique)
- Edit `portfolo.yaml' to include the module in one of the subgroups we created in the last step
- Regenerate the portfolio and verify that it now includes the new module

## Exercise 2: Publish Portfolio

Try to publish the portfolio to a new github gh-pages site. Remember, you will be publishing the `portfolio/public-site` folder (not '/portfolio').


## Exercise 3: Standalone Site

Download this course - then one you are doing now - via this command:

~~~
git clone https://github.com/wit-tutors/tutors-course-src.git
~~~

Build the course via the tutors command. Verify that it has build correctly (by browsing it locally). Incorporate the course into the portfolio you created in the earlier exercises.

Try building the course using this command:

~~~
tutors -s
~~~

Can you see a different output? A version of the course web - generated to `standalond-site` - can be browsed using a machine not connected to Internet. All assets are replicated in the `public-site` folder and linked to from there. The other generated versions rely on CDNs to download public assets (style sheets + js modules).


## Exercise 4: mbignore

For the course download in Exercise 3 above, open the file `mbignore` and paste in the following:


### mbignore 

~~~
topic05-git
~~~

Rebuild the course. The newly generated course will **exclude** any topics listed in `mbignore`. Try it again, excluding more topics:

~~~
topic04-portfolios
topic05-git
~~~

Only the first 3 topics should now be published.

Leaving the above mbignore in place, run tutors again with this flag:

~~~
tutors -p
~~~

This will generate `public-site` as before, excluding the named topics. However, simultaneously it will generate a new `private-site` folder. This version will include **all** topics, regardless of the contents of mbignore. 

This last scenario can be useful for selectively publishing a course for public consumption, but privately working on later, unpublished, topics.


## Exercise 5: credits

For the course downloaded in Exercise 3, investigate the contents of the `credits` file:

~~~
Eamonn de Leastar (edeleastar@wit.ie)
~~~

However, there is another credits file in `topic05-git/book-b-branching-and-merging`

### credits

~~~
Jason Madigan (jmadigan@redhat.com) & Gerard Ryan (gryan@redhat.com)
~~~

This version of the credits is local to that particular lab.

Try giving yourself the credit for one of the labs, or topics - and see how it is rendered when the course is generated.



